Add first draft of v2.2.0 changelog (#983)
ESMValGroup/ESMValCore: doc/changelog.rst

Changelog
=========

.. _changelog-v2-2-0:

v2.2.0
------

This release includes

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

-  Fix path settings for DKRZ/Mistral (`#852 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/852>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Change logic for calling the diagnostic script to avoid problems with scripts where the executable bit is accidentally set (`#877 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/877>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Fix overwriting in generic level check (`#886 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/886>`__) `sloosvel <https://github.com/sloosvel>`__
-  Add double quotes to script args in rerun screen message when using vprof profiling (`#897 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/897>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Simplify time handling in multi-model statistics preprocessor (`#685 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/685>`__) `Peter Kalverla <https://github.com/Peter9192>`__

> -  Fix duplication in preprocessors DEFAULT_ORDER  (`#973 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/973>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__

Reviewer: While this was indeed a bug that was fixed, it was not present in the previous release because the bug was introduced #696 which was merged after that. Therefore I think it doesn't make much sense to list this under bug fixes, it makes more sense to add it to the description of #696.

-  Fix links to Iris documentation (`#966 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/966>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__

> -  Add option to exclude input cubes in output of multimodel statistics (`#978 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/978>`__) `Peter Kalverla <https://github.com/Peter9192>`__

Reviewer: Similarly to the above case, the bug fix part of this pull request was for a bug introduced after the previous release, therefore I think it makes more sense to list this under the `Preprocessor` functions

-  Support automatically closing issues (`#922 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/922>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Change in config-user defaults and documentation with new location for esmeval OBS data on JASMIN (`#958 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/958>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Update Core Team info (`#942 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/942>`__) `Axel Lauer <https://github.com/axel-lauer>`__
-  Update iris documentation URL for sphinx (`#964 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/964>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Create CODEOWNERS file (`#809 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/809>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__
-  Remove code needed for Python <3.6 (`#844 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/844>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Add requests as a dependency (`#850 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/850>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__

> -  CMOR check generic level coordinates in CMIP6 (`#598 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/598>`__) `sloosvel <https://github.com/sloosvel>`__

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add a CMOR section to the log? If not, would it make sense to add this under 'Preprocessor'?

-  Remove numba dependency (`#880 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/880>`__) `Manuel Schlund <https://github.com/schlunma>`__
-  Switched miniconda conda setup hooks for Github Actions workflows (`#873 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/873>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Implement importable config object in experimental API submodule (`#868 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/868>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Add labels to changelogs of individual versions for easy reference (`#899 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/899>`__) `Klaus Zimmermann <https://github.com/zklaus>`__
-  Add test for latest version resolver (`#874 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/874>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Add Listing and finding recipes to the experimental notebook API (`#901 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/901>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__

> -  Adding the ability to derive xch4  (`#783 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/783>`__) `Birgit Hassler <https://github.com/hb326>`__

Reviewer: This is a preprocessor function

-  Update codacy coverage reporter to fix coverage (`#905 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/905>`__) `Niels Drost <https://github.com/nielsdrost>`__

> -  Fix docker build badge url (`#906 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/906>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__

Reviewer: This would be documentation

> -  Update github PR template (`#909 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/909>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__

Reviewer: This would also be documentation

-  Update CMIP6 tables to 6.9.33 (`#919 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/919>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__
-  Adding custom variables for tas uncertainty (`#924 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/924>`__) `Lisa Bock <https://github.com/LisaBock>`__
-  Skip variables that don't have dataset or additional_dataset keys (`#860 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/860>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__

> -  Avoid hardcoded year in tests and add improvement to plev test case (`#921 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/921>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__

Reviewer: Preprocessor?

-  Pin scipy to less than 1.6.0 until ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/927 gets resolved (`#928 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/928>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__

> -  Fix checkboxes in PR template (`#931 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/931>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__

Reviewer: Dcoumentation

-  Github Actions: change time when conda install test runs (`#930 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/930>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Remove redundant test line from test_utils.py (`#935 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/935>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Refactor logging configuration (`#933 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/933>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__

> -  Use consistent precision in multi-model statistics calculation and update reference data for tests (`#941 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/941>`__) `Peter Kalverla <https://github.com/Peter9192>`__

Reviewer: Preprocessor

> -  Xco2 derivation (`#913 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/913>`__) `Bettina Gier <https://github.com/bettina-gier>`__

Reviewer: Preprocessor

-  Removed netCDF4 package from integration tests of fixes (`#938 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/938>`__) `Manuel Schlund <https://github.com/schlunma>`__
-  Working environment for Python 3.9 (pin to !=3.9.0) (`#885 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/885>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__
-  Use new conda environment for installing ESMValCore in Docker containers (`#951 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/951>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Add loading and running recipes to the notebook API (`#907 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/907>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Add displaying and loading of recipe output to the notebook API (`#957 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/957>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Print source file when using config get_config_user command (`#960 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/960>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__

> -  Refactor multi-model statistics code to facilitate ensemble stats and lazy evaluation (`#949 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/949>`__) `Peter Kalverla <https://github.com/Peter9192>`__

Reviewer: Preprocessor

-  Add functionality to run single diagnostic task to notebook API (`#962 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/962>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Deprecate defining write_plots and write_netcdf in config-user file (`#808 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/808>`__) `Bouwe Andela <https://github.com/bouweandela>`__
-  Switch to Iris 3 (`#819 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/819>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Refactor tasks (`#959 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/959>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Pin pre-commit hooks (`#974 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/974>`__) `Stef Smeets <https://github.com/stefsmeets>`__
-  Improve error messages when data is missing (`#917 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/917>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__

> -  Remove monotonicity coordinate check for unstructured grids (`#965 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/965>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__

Reviewer: Preprocessor or CMOR?

Author: CMOR, but this was not defined in the list od the `draft_realease_notes`. I will add it

-  Set remove_preproc_dir to false in default config-user (`#979 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/979>`__) `Valeriu Predoi <https://github.com/valeriupredoi>`__

> -  Set version to 2.2.0 (`#977 <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/977>`__) `Javier Vegas-Regidor <https://github.com/jvegasbsc>`__

Reviewer: Documentation

Changelog
=========

.. _changelog-v2-2-0:

v2.2.0
------

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~

ESMValCore is now using the recently released `Iris 3 <https://scitools-iris.readthedocs.io/en/latest/whatsnew/3.0.html>`__.
We acknowledge that this change may impact your work, as Iris 3 introduces

> several breaking changes, but we think that moving forward is the best

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
several changes that are not backward-compatible, but we think that moving forward is the best
```

decision for the tool in the long term.

This release is also the first one including support for downloading CMIP6 data

> using Synda. Give it a try!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using Synda and we have also started supporting Python 3.9. Give it a try!
```
